Some questions from IA169 System Verification and Assurance final exams.
I kept it in batches of 6, as in exams. They may repeat.
Test is 70 points, so there is usually one 20 point algorithm question,
and 5 questions for 10 points - theory, draw schema, draw hierarchy...
Gathered by Peavey.


1. PCTL (probabilistic CTL), how to compute
2. Draw schema of CEGAR approach, under approximation works?
3. Given piece of code, draw Symbolic Execution Tree
4. Multiple condition coverage, draw coverage hierarchy
5. CBMC algorithm skeleton, 1 terminating condition
6. Show that AF(AG(q)) in CTL is not <=> with FG(q) in LTL
   (too complex? At least be able to talk about it)

1. LTL: syntax & semantics (20-25 points!)
2. role of Oracle in testing
3. Partial Order Reduction
4. Reduction of problem Model M |= phi to emptiness of language L(A_sys x A_neg(fi))
   (Build product automaton, check the automaton for presence of accepting cycle,
    if there is reachable AC, then M is not modelo of phi. If L is empty lang, M |= phi.)
5. SymExec: if there is node on location X, and path condition is UNSAT, is X dead code?
   (no, location X can be present elsewhere)
6. MC/DC coverage - branching points (check appendix of first lecture)


1. Write a skeleton of Bounded Model Checking algorithm.
   Write at least one terminating condition of this algorithm. (20 points)
2. What is under-approximation and what does positive and negative
   result of verification mean? Compare.
3. Draw CEGAR approach schema. How does it work with respect to 
   under-approximation
4. What is Oracle in testing?
5. Write two transformations that happen to inner nodes during
   BDT to BDD transformation algorithm.
6. Define differences between decision / branching points in
   Modified Coverage / Decision Coverage.
   
1. Write how automated test algorithms based on symbolic execution are created
2. Partial order reduction, what is it's goal, what are conditions of its usage?
3. CTL* syntax
4. What is the difference between transient and recurrent states, in context of probabilistic automatons?
5. Write how Hoare Triple looks like and explain what it means
6. Who won Moshe Vardi's Branching vs. Linear Time: Final Showdown and why? (check appendix of lecture 7)
   