tip: (8) - num. times question is seen before. Bigger num -> higher P you'll get it.


(8) RSA, and proof
(1) Show that knowledge of least significant bit of plaintext allows to recover whole plaintext encrypted by RSA
(1) randomized RSA cryptosystems

(8) Knapsack cryptosystem. Design, encryption, decryption. Proof of decoding. Knapsack attacks. 
(3) McEliece cryptosystem

(4) Digital signatures - requirements and methods. Possible "man-in-the middle" attacks.
(1) timestamping and digital signatures

(1) Examples of zero-knowledge proofs.
(3) zero-knowledge proof of discrete logarithm or 3-colorability of graph
(3) zero-knowledge proof about the age-difference 
(3) Zero-knoledge proof for graf non-isomorphism
(3) Zero-knowledge proof for graph isomorphism - completeness and soundness
(?) Zero-knowledge proof for quadratic residua
(2) Ane is badly willing to crack some authentisation algorithm, for which she needs to compute a discrete logarithm log_a(x). Bob just bought a new quantum computer and is willing to Ane with anything for just a little love. Ane is attracted by the deal, but she doesn't want Bob to discover x. Provide a method to help Ane and become her hero
to je zero knowlege discr log. proto - one porssible Schnoor scheme(neni to v prednaskach)
(1) In which case Alice can ask Bob for help with computation of f(x) without revealing x to Bob?

(3) Secret-key cryptosystems without key distribution.

(2) Group version of ElGamal cryptosystem
(3) ElGamal cryptosystem and digital signature schemes.
(1) ElGamal Signature Scheme.
(1) ElGamal crytosystem
(1) Let us consider the group version of the ElGamal cryptosystem. Alice chooses the group G to be the multiplicative group of the finite field F2^4. The multiplication will be performed modulo the irreducible 	polynomial f(x). Further, Alice chooses the private key a=7 and computes a public key.
	  a) Determine f(x)
	  b) Compute the public key
	  c) Show both the encryption and the decryption process for the message m=1100

(1) Algorithm p-1 for integer factorization.
(2) Pollards p-1 integer factorization.
(1) Show that breaking of Rabin cryptosystem would allow factorization
(2) Explain quadratic sieve method of factorization
(2) Factorize n (n and Phi(n) given, both > 80 000 000)
(1) factoring with elliptic curves

(2) Fiat-shamir signature scheme
(1) Elementary method of user identification.
(1) Fiat-Shamir basic and parallel identification.
(2) Fiat-Shamir identification scheme 
(2) Fiat-Shamir identification scheme + parallel version
(1) Schnorr identification scheme
(1) Shammir identification
(1) Okamoto identification scheme.

(2) Cyclic codes - algebraic characteristic 
(2) Basic properites of cyclic code, design of generation matrix 
(2) basic properties of linear and cyclic codes
(2) Cyclic codes and their algebraic characterisation
(2) Linear codes encodingd/decoding + properties, Cyclic codes + properties
(1) characteric theorem of cyclic codes
(1) Cyclic codes and their algebraic characterization. Proof of the characterization theorem.
(1) Show that if C is linear code, then adding parity check bit to the end of all codewords forms another linear code.
(1) Show that if C is a binary linear code, then the code obtained by adding parity check bits to all words of C is also a linear code.
(1) rozhodnout který kod je cyklické nebo mu ekvivaletní
       (0000,1133,3311) nebo (10001,01010,00101) (myslím že tak byli nějak)

(1) DES
(1) DES cryptosystem, Feistel cryptosystem, Linear feedback shift registers
(2) Linear feedback shift registers and their cryptoanalysis.
(1) Shift registers
(2) AES
(1) Describe the modes of block ciphers.

(1) Is Caesar cryptosystem closed under composition?
(2) Diffie-Hellman for three persons
(1) Authenticated Diffie-Hellman password exchange
(1) Examples of user authentication protocols

(1) Vigenere chipher
(2) Popište Kasiskiho a Friedmanovu metodu zjištění délky klíče u šifry Vigenere
(1) Cryptoanalysis of Vigenere cifertext, proof of cryptoanalytical methods
(1) When is a cryptosystem perfectly secure
(1) Perfect secrecy cryptosystem

(1) Bit commitment and oblivious transfer + implementation
(1) Bit commitment protocols.
(1) Bit commitment, definition and solutions. Oblivious transfer, definition and solutions.

(1) Dual codes, parity check matrix of linear codes
(1) Hamming and singleton bound
(1) Hamming codes, parity checks, Hamming bound, Perfect codes

(2) Eliptic curves

(2) Secret sharing schemes

(1) Hill cryptosystem - you have one word in plaintext and cryptotext and you have to decrypt another cryptotext
(1) Hill cryptosystem

(1) Schnorr-Shamir-Ong subliminal channel scheme

(1) Security and robustness of stegosystems

(1) Dirac's ket-bra notation, dual vector spaces, dual forms.

(1) Rabin in simple and generalized version

(1) Encrypt with autoclave (key smth like "abasdsa", text "meetmethisevening") 

(1) Bit security of discrete logarithm.
(1) Coin tossing phone protocol based on discrete logarithm
(1) coin flipping by phone
(1) Mental poker by phone

(1) One-way function, one-way trapdoor function

(1) Quantum teleportation.
(1) Quantum registers, quantum measuring, no-copy theorem
(1) BB84 is a quantum key distribution scheme developed by Charles Bennett and Gilles Brassard in 1984

(1) design Huffman code for elements x_1 -- x_10 with probabilities 0.4 0.3 0.15
0.08 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.008 0.007 0.005

Průběh zkoušky:
Vylosujete si z velké nabídky lísteček, na němž je pětice otázek. Vyberete příslušný počet otázek a na papíře na ně odpovíte. Kdo už je hotový jde si v téže místnosti popovídat s panem Gruskou, jde to dost svižně. Pokud je s papírovou verzí spokojen, moc se neptá, když něco chybí, upřímně se snaží to z vás vytáhnout :-)

Odpozorované známkování:
A - uspokojivě odpovíte na vámi zvolené otázky a dokážete něco říct i o těch zbývajících.
B - uspokojivě odpovíte na vámi zvolené otázky, ale o ostatních nevíte vůbec nic
E - na zvolené otázky odpovíte neuspokojivě
Fko nedostal z 10 lidí, co přede mnou byli, nikdo.

Doporučení:
- Zjistěte si předem, kolik otázek máte odpovídat a kolik bodů jste měli ze cvičení.
- Naučte se zejména často se opakující otázky - RSA, cyklické kódy, ElGamal, zero-knowledge proofs, viz zadání z předchozích let
- Důležité jsou dovětky k otázkám, např. u cyklických kódů "Characterization theorem for cyclic codes", najděte si přesně ten slajd, který se takhle jmenuje a zkuste ho pochopit, protože přesně to chce slyšet (to samé třeba důkaz korektnosti RSA).
